Those slender wrists. Bare and smooth, she must moisturize. I could wrap my fingers around those wrists and all four tips would touch my thumb. There’s that game the other kids play at school, curling index fingers around wrists to touch the thumb, and moving up and up and up, and the farther they can move up, the more babies the person will eventually birth. The science of junior high, reflecting the spells we learned in grade school using only a well-placed buttercup to discern how boy crazy you might be. She would have ten children, maybe, a household or two, a village. But the elbow might put a stop to that, and the muscles that come after, though they’re hard to see beneath her blazer. Blue like her eyes. I wonder what she’ll tell us, and what her voice will sound like when she speaks.

I am up in my room, it used to be the attic but I was a surprise. Dad put my mattress on top of a group of boxes full of memories he swears we’ll never need to check on, but just in case, we’ll save on a box spring. My sheets are pink with pale yellow flowers and they match my pillowcase and my comforter, I didn’t pick them out. Jason has X-Men sheets, and Jeremy has plain black, and I have yellow flowers swimming in a pink expanse, and my name is Jordan. Surprise, surprise.

She pulls into the driveway. I placed a bet with myself that she would park on the street, but now her Mazda is boxing in our minivan, and it’s a possibility that this was calculated. I wonder if she knows that my parents would never run - well, maybe Mom, but never Dad - and if they did, we have horses in the barn and they can go places her Mazda only sees in its SUV dreams. She’s wearing heels and a skirt that only pretends to fall passed her knees, she probably wouldn’t chase us. She’d make a call, that’s all it would take, and wait disinterestedly for us to fall. Fall. It’s almost Summer.

I pick through my dresser. Mom would kill me if she knew I was not dressed yet, but she’s still at the hospital, and Dad’s in the field. We have a fox problem and our last good dog died last week. Checking up, checking up. I think I’ll dress down, fuck impressions.

A pair of Jason’s old Wranglers, torn at the knees almost symmetrically, two sizes too big and I won’t bother with a belt. Mom doesn’t know about the stud in my bellybutton so I throw on a long black tank top. Seems to me that kind of thing should be no big deal, but she freaked when Jeremy pierced his ears last year and I’m not taking chances. Sneakers on, and one last peak out the window.

She’s finger-combing her hair and checking her makeup in the Mazda’s side mirror. Doesn’t look like she’s wearing much, some light lipstick, blush, subtle eye shadow.  She’s pretty and I wish she weren’t. Her hair’s the same shade as mine, light brown if you look too quickly or from too far away, golden if you don’t blink. The sleeve of her blazer slides down her arm as she combs, and the wrist stares up at me. Briefcase at her feet. I wish I’d been told what to expect.

Before I leave my room, I grab the beaded bracelet from my nightstand. We made them in art class yesterday, and it’s garish and bright and doesn’t go with what I’m wearing. If she admires it, I’ll offer it to her.

The doorbell doesn’t even have a chance to ring before Jeremy’s piano starts up, and I can’t tell if it’s Chopsticks or something Mozart scribbled on a napkin before dessert. Jeremy likes to experiment, mixing scores like a human blender, and then convincing the uneducated that he composed it himself. I know why he’s playing now, and I want to hit him. I hope he’s wearing a tie and the silver cufflinks Mom bought him, I hope his shoes are polished and he hasn’t shaved the inch and a half of pale yellow hair above his lip that he insists is a mustache. If he takes her hand and kisses it, I’ll punch a wall or pee my pants, I haven’t decided yet.

Downstairs, the smell of cookies baking wafts into the living room from the kitchen. If Mom managed to get Jason to bake, then I will pee my pants.

Jason comes into the room at a half-run, almost knocking into the couch. He’s not wearing a suit but he has his nice pants on, the ones Dad picked up from the drycleaner yesterday, probably the first time he’s ever set foot in one of those. I wanted to go with him because I bet myself that the place smelled like dryer sheets. Jason’s short-sleeved flannel shirt is tucked into his waistband, and he looks at his reflection in our only framed piece of real art (a print of Van Gogh’s “Starry Night”) and licks his hands and smoothes back his dark hair. He shaved.

“Let me get the door,” he says, walking right by me, never even looking.

I slouch on the sofa, propping my feet up on the coffee table and keeping my knees spread as far away from each other as possible. I wish I had some gum.

The front door opens in the foyer, around the corner from the living room, so I can’t see them but I hear him being pleasant and it’s weird. They’re probably shaking hands as he welcomes her in. “You must be, oh and I’m, and come on in, and right this way, and make yourself comfortable.”

She precedes him through the doorway and if his hand is not pressed against the small of her back I know he wishes it were. She stops in front of the bookcase and looks at me, smiling without showing her teeth. Jason steps around her and finally notices me, and I can see it in the way his eyes narrow and his fake smile falters and he pinches the pocket of his slacks, but he can’t say anything in front of her. I don’t stand up.

He speaks to her instead. “Mrs. Omalis, this is my sister Jordan.”

“Pleasure to meet you,” she says to me, and she sounds British but only a little. She turns to my brother and touches his arm when she says, “It’s Miss Omalis.”

His sheepish smile masks his hard-on. He directs her to my Dad’s chair next to the couch.

“My Dad’s out with the livestock right now,” he tells her. “But he should be back any minute. Can I get you something to drink?”

“Yes, thank you, a glass of water?”

She says it like a question, like she’s not sure we have plumbing out here, like she’s never heard of a well. I’m surprised Jason didn’t go straight for the brandy, Mom would’ve.

Before he leaves the room, he looks at me. “Jordan, you want to help me?”

“No,” I say. I don’t even look at him. I’ll get it later, but right now, this is too much fun.

He leaves before he says something he can’t take back.

There would be uncomfortable silence except Jeremy is still pounding away at his minor keys and there isn’t a door thick enough in this house to drown it out. She looks in the direction of the stairs and her smile returns.

“Who’s upstairs?”

I’m sure she already knows, so I cross my arms and look at my shoes. There’s still dirt on the bottoms, probably manure too, but the cookie smell will cover it up. I kind of want a cookie, maybe Jason will bring a plate out with her water. I bet he does.

The sounds of her opening her briefcase draw my eyes away from my feet. She’s pulling out a folder and a clipboard. She snaps the case shut and sets it back against the side of the chair. Dad bought that chair at a flea market before any of us were born, and Mom crocheted a blanket that hangs over its back and arms to hide the holes and tears. He rocked me to sleep in that chair, he let me stay up late and watch old movies. She takes out a pen and starts writing.

Without saying anything, I move to the other side of the couch, closer to her. She smells like tulip petals. Mom keeps a garden out behind the barn and this woman smells like Mom’s hands do when it’s rose season. Tulips and roses are two different flowers. How does she do it? One is her shampoo, and the other is her perfume. She’s looking at me.

“What grade are you in, Jordan?”

It’s probably too much if I roll my eyes, but I have no gum to chew obstinately so you work with what you’ve got.

She laughs a little, it sounds almost like she’s humming, but it’s a laugh. She marks something on her clipboard, and without looking back up at me, says, “Do you want to tell your parents about your new jewelry, or shall I?”

My hand goes instinctively to my stomach. It’s still a little sore. Of course she’d blackmail me, of course.

“Do they have to know?” I ask, giving her control, as if I had any of it to begin with.

“Perhaps not,” she says, looking at me again. “What grade are you in?”

Her pupils are small but they undulate, her irises shimmer like the surfaces of pools. Her hair is so straight she must use an iron to keep it just so. I wish she made noise when she moved her arm, the sounds of her clothes creasing and crinkling, I wish I could hear it when she swallowed.

“Ninth,” I say.

She marks it down. “Do you like it?”

I can hear Mom’s voice in my ear telling me to be enthusiastic, to boast of my perfect attendance and test scores, and segue naturally into how I’ve always wanted to teach and help today’s youth become the leaders of tomorrow. There are too many lies in that to untangle, and I don’t see the real difference in being me or being the lie, so I’ll let the rest of them experiment with becoming statistics and leave me out of it.

“It passes the time,” I say, and I hope she knows what I mean, and I want to see it in her eyes that she knows, but she blinks and turns back to her clipboard and makes another mark. Her eye shadow is darker up close.

The piano stops, the back door slams. Two male voices waft in from the kitchen with the waning odor of the cookies I’m beginning to think don’t really exist.

“Your father?” She asks, pointing through the doorway with her pen.

The front door opens and closes loudly and she walks into the room knowing what she’ll find, so her back is straighter and her smile is on.

“My mother,” I say.

There hasn’t been a day mom’s come home from the hospital in anything but her floral scrubs, yet here she is, shrugging off her coat with an unselfconscious smile to reveal an eggshell blue blouse and just-below-the-knee black skirt. Plain brown leather belt, pumps. Tasteful. Where are those damn cookies? 
The woman rises to her feet to greet her, and my mom steps forward, her coat thrown over one arm, the other extended.

“Hello, you must be Mrs. Omalis,” my mom says, and they shake, and she’s still smiling away.

“Miss Omalis,” she corrects. “Pleasure to meet you, Mrs. Fontaine. I’ve just been getting acquainted with your lovely daughter.”

Growing up with two older brothers you’d think I’d be attuned to sarcasm, but all I catch is a look of disdain on mom’s face when she sees what I’m wearing. Omalis is still smiling.

“Have you? I’m sure she’s been most accommodating.” Ah, there’s the sarcasm. “Please, sit.”

Omalis smoothes out her skirt and sits in one graceful motion. Mom drapes her coat over the arm of the sofa and sits on the other end, spending several awkward seconds trying to figure out how to cross her legs. At the ankle, like a lady. Even I know that.

To me, she says, “Forget to do your laundry?”

Her hair is thin and it’s the most unattractive thing about her. It just lies there on top of her head like its waiting for you to tell it to do something, but then it would probably just ignore you anyway. It’s brown and plain and doesn’t at all go with her eyes, deep green, so emphatic you know they’re saying something but you’re the one who’s not listening. She tried to get a perm once but the curls didn’t take. I think she should shave her head and get a wig, one that suits her, maybe raven black and wispy, licorice red and full.

“We ran out of detergent,” I tell her. There, excuse taken care of, back to the niceties.

“You have a very warm home, Mrs. Fontaine,” Omalis says.

We both look at her. For a second, I think my mom is going to say something about turning down the thermostat, or something corny like, “well, it is filled with love,” but she clasps her hands in her lap and offers a pleasant thank you on the lips of the smile she’s trying so hard not to look strained. I know she wants to bite her hangnails, but she keeps her hands folded in her lap.

Jason appears in the doorway from the back, a tray carefully balanced in his hands. He sets it on the table and apologizes for taking so long. A glass of water, a cup of tea, and lo and behold, a plate of cookies.

“Mom, the tea is for you,” he says. “I know how you like to wind down after a long day at work.”

“Thank you, dear,” mom says, taking the mug, surprised and delighted. Like she hasn’t been training him all week.

“Dad just got in,” he says to the room. “He wants me to apologize on his behalf; he felt it was only a courtesy to shower before he joins us.”

My mom twitters like a circus bird on crack. I lean in for a cookie but she grabs my wrist and gently places my arm back in my lap. She looks at me sidelong so quickly I don’t think anyone else catches it. When I was little we used to bake cookies together and it wasn’t any fun unless there was a flour fight, and there always was, right at the end; we would bathe in it, and it would stain our skin and dry us out and then we’d put on our swimsuits and take a shower together, and she would smell like flour and baking soda and vanilla for days. Today, she smells like Macy’s latest free sample.

“Jason,” mom says, “Could you run upstairs and get your brother?”

Jason nods and walk-runs up the stairs. I run a finger under the bracelet on my left wrist and snap it against the skin. The beads knock together but mom doesn’t look, and Omalis is asking questions again.

“How long have you lived here?”

“Oh, what has it been now? Thirteen years, just after Jordan was born.” She puts her hand on my knee. It isn’t warm. “Before that, we lived in Hazard, Kentucky, where Jay helped with his father’s farm. But - you know men and their ambitions - Jay had to have a farm of his own, wanted to get into the cattle ranching business, so here we are.”

“It’s a lovely place,” Omalis says, and the more she speaks the more uncertain I am of her accent, because the vowels are rounder than with the accents I hear on TV, but the lilt is the same. “I wonder if I might be able to take a tour before I leave, hmm?”

She makes that sound, “hmm,” come out of her like it just melted out, like it was in there all this time just slowly building up until it got the chance to spill over, and its so buttery and soft, how can you deny it.

“Of course, my husband would love-”

“Perhaps Jason could show me around,” she cuts in, “while we chat.”

Mom falters only slightly, it’s fairly impressive really, how only the veins in her neck constrict and her temple pulses once, and it passes. No involuntary eye twitch or hard swallow or sporadic fluttering of limbs. She’s been practicing.

“Jason would adore that,” she says. “He really knows his way around the farm. I think he enjoys helping his father around the stables more than just about anything else.”

I think he’ll enjoy eye-humping Miss Omalis as he lets her walk ahead of him through the stables, offering to saddle up Grady just so he can cop a feel as he helps her onto the horse’s back.

My brothers clamber down the stairs like schoolboys on Christmas morning. Jason slows his pace when he hits the landing, Jeremy following at his heels. Jeremy is wearing a black sweater and black Dockers, and a pair of Dad’s loafers. He didn’t shave, the fair whiskers hang loosely above his upper lip, and his hair is so gelled you could ice-skate on it. Mom pats the cushion in between us and he sits down.

“Jason, grab some chairs from the dining room,” mom says.

“Oh no, Jason, don’t bother with that,” Omalis says, waving a hand that bends like a wilting flower over her slender wrist. Slender but strong, I see that, from this close up. “It really would be more expedient to simply interview each child individually, no need to wait for the entire family to be present.”

“Jay will only be a moment-”

While mom wages her gentle protest, I watch the front of Jason’s pants, trying to see if his boner shriveled up when Miss Omalis referred to him as a child. The dress pants are too spacious to tell.

“I don’t want to take up any more of your time than is necessary,” Omalis continues. “Running a farm is very consuming work, I know. So I’ll dispense with the pleasantries here and skip right to the formalities.”

She uncrosses and re-crosses her legs, left over right this time, at the knee. She’s not wearing pantyhose. The dimples in her naked knee wink at me as she rambles to my mother.

“We just need to make sure that you fully understand and appreciate what I’ll be doing here today, and that we have your full compliance. I’ll be conducting a short interview with each of your children, during which I will administer a brief oral psychological examination. I’m here to observe and record, not to assess, you understand. I will present my observations after I leave here and the final analysis will be made, at which time I will return here and let you know the decision. This process usually takes no longer than one week.”

There is a pause in Omalis’s preamble and I expect to hear mom’s voice, but when it doesn’t come I look at her. Her eyes are closed and she’s holding Jeremy’s hand.

“Mrs. Fontaine,” Omalis says. She leans over her clipboard, and her lilt drops an octave, and if the space between her chair and my mom’s position on the sofa were not so wide, I think she’d take her hand. “It is very important, Mrs. Fontaine, that you realize my presence here is not a final judgment. It is simply a step, and it could very well lead nowhere.”

This is supposed to be comforting, but mom doesn’t let go of Jeremy’s hand, or open her eyes. Omalis is wearing lip-gloss instead of lipstick and I bet it has a flavor, something fruity.

“I’ll go first,” Jason says in the silence. “For the interviews.”

Omalis’s smile is placating. “I think I’d like to save you for last.”

He’ll have wet dreams over that single sentence for weeks.

“Let’s start with the youngest, shall we?” She says. “Work our way up, yes?”

My mom rises with Miss Omalis and finally drops Jeremy’s hand. “The dining room is all set up, or the patio, there’s a great view.” She’s trying.

“I think, actually, I’d like to see Jordan’s room, if she wouldn’t mind.”

Mom’s frown is almost comical. Before she has a chance to say anything, I plop my feet on the floor and shoot up, grabbing a handful of cookies as I make my way to the stairs. “Come on,” I toss over my shoulder.

I hear my mother twitter nervously. “I’d ask you to pardon her as she was born in a barn, but it seems too obvious.”

I like that Omalis doesn’t laugh. Her footsteps follow me to the attic.

The attic stairs aren’t steep but they’re no picnic either, though obviously this woman is fit enough to climb them without breaking a sweat. I usually make it to the top slightly winded myself, but I hold back this time, forcing myself to release air in measured exhalations. I slump onto my bed immediately and watch her mount the last step, twisting on the landing to look at me. Her eyes trail over me and continue on to my nightstand, which is really an old cedar chest with who knows what inside, and to my dresser, magazines spilling out from beneath it, and to the clothes strewn across the floor, the stuffed animals on the cushion-less wooden rocking chair at the foot of my bed. I keep meaning to shove them in one of those boxes meshed together at the other end of the attic but I haven’t gotten around to it yet.

“You can move that stuff,” I tell her, indicating the rocking chair. “If you want to sit.”

I fill my mouth with cookie so she can’t launch into her questions right away. They’re surprisingly soft and warm; the chocolate chips burst from the dough and drip onto my tongue, almost burning but in a good way, sliding down my throat in the wake of buttery crumble. Jason makes a mean cookie.

Miss Omalis goes to the chair, leans her briefcase against the wall, and sets her clipboard on the bed so she can carefully pick each animal up individually and place it neatly on the mattress, leaning each comfortably against the wall. I’m sure Mr. Blue Bunny and Mrs. Pink Walrus are very much obliged. I chew my cookie and watch her. She doesn’t seem at all self-conscious; I’m waiting for her to pat Green Turtle’s head or maybe give his chin a nice quick chuck.

Finally, she sits down, smoothes out her skirt again, and picks up her clipboard. I expect her to push a finger against the bridge of her glasses until I remember she isn’t wearing any, which is a shame really because they would suit her quite well, especially with that accent.

“Impressive collection,” she says, eying her arrangement. “Do you have names for them?”

“Sure,” I say. I don’t, but she went through a lot of trouble. “That one is Sigmund, that’s Mary Shelly, the one behind her is David Cassidy, that one’s Puck, and the one on the end is Mrs. Lovett. The other three are just numbers, in the order I got them.”

I’m sure she’ll have fun psycho-analyzing all those name choices, even though I don’t see the point to it anyway, like my fate wasn’t sealed along with everyone else’s long before we were even born, like I should really believe any of the things she said downstairs.

She smiles at my answer, only a half one, kind of lazy but it still crinkles the corners of her eyes. She scribbles something on her clipboard.

“How long have you lived in the attic?” She asks.

I shrug, and reach behind me to fold my pillow, kicking my legs, dirty shoes and all, up onto the bed. Mom would love that. “I don’t know, a year or something.”

“Do you like it better?”

I rest my head against the folded pillow and stare over my knees at Miss Omalis. The final cookie bobs slowly up and down on my stomach. “Better than what?”

“It affords quite a bit more privacy,” she says. “I should think any teenage girl would relish even a modicum of that rarity, in a house with two older brothers.”

“Privacy to do what?” If I keep her talking, maybe she’ll run over time on this appointment and have to end it short, maybe she’ll realize I’m just being ornery and give up.

“Oh I don’t know.” She swipes a hand breezily through the air, painting a picture. “Journal, have your friends over, sleep in silence, think without interruption, pierce something.”

“We didn’t do it here,” I say reflexively.

The corners of her mouth dimple. “It was only an example.”

If she were my friend, I’d kick a stuffed animal at her, or call her something I didn’t really mean, or flick her off. As it is, I avert my eyes from hers and bring my wrist up to my mouth, the one with the bracelet, and nibble at the beads. She still hasn’t asked about it.

“Why can’t you tell your mother?”

My belly laugh nearly topples the cookie off my stomach.

“She’ll freak out?” She offers. It sounds like she hasn’t used that phrase in probably a decade.

“I think so,” I say.

“But that’s why you did it in the first place, right?”

When I look at her, she’s got that lazy smile on again, and I wish I were close enough to smell her shampoo.

“Teenage rebellion is taboo,” I say.

Her smile widens but she doesn’t show her teeth all the way and she doesn’t laugh. I bet her laugh - her real, spontaneous laugh - is exactly like her voice, melodic and hymnal, overly-rounded vowels and languid consonants.

“Where are you from?” I ask.

She stops smiling. “Is that important?”

“You have an accent,” I say. Stupid. Duh, she knows that. Catching up, I say, “It’s not British exactly, and it can’t be Australian….”

Her fingers brush at a strand of hair that’s fallen across her forehead. She doesn’t tuck it behind her ear and it falls back across it again. “No, no,” she says. “It’s South African.”

“Oh.”

Outside, the bull bleats out a mating call or a call of warning, who knows which, and the chickens cluck in response. They must be at the side of the house if I can hear them from here; mom will be furious with my dad for not penning the chickens and gating the cattle.

“What do you want to be?” She asks, breaking the silence and changing the subject.

I would bite my tongue but I’m not causing myself pain over this ridiculous hoop show, so I shove the remaining cookie into my mouth instead.

She bends her arm over the clipboard, and her pen seems a little more eager now. “Hopes, dreams, aspirations? What do you want to do with your life? I’ll wait until you’ve swallowed.”

I chew as slowly as I can but as soon as the crumbs turn to mush turn to near liquid I have no choice but to swallow, or spit it out I guess but I’ve already gotten dirt from my shoes on the bed, no need to add to the stains.

Miss Omalis taps the pen against the clasp of her clipboard. She’s on the verge of uncrossing and re-crossing her legs, and she’s not taking her eyes off of me. I can’t believe she is really asking me this, especially after what she’s revealed, considering what she’s…Oh, fuck it, just say it.

“Is this what you always wanted to be?” I ask.

Her eyes don’t leave mine and she doesn’t miss a beat. “Yes. What do you want to be?”

“I don’t believe you.”

“You don’t have to believe me. What do you want to be?”

“Which answer keeps me out of the summer program?”

She exhales suddenly, part gasp part exaggerated sigh, and presses her thumb into the center of her forehead, closing her eyes. The tendon in her wrist tenses, stretching the skin, making the vain pulse. If she were wearing my bracelet, the beads would rattle against each other.

After a moment with her eyes closed, she opens them and slides her pen into the clasp of the clipboard. Twisting over the arm of the chair, she gathers up her briefcase and returns the clipboard to it, snapping it closed with an ominous finality.

She stands up. “Jordan,” she says, then stops. If I were a poet, I could maybe say what emotions play across her face, what an eyebrow twitch means or how many moons are set free by the undulation of her pupils, the crinkles in her chin.

“Nothing can keep you out of the program,” she says. “I’m sorry.”

I lay there and stare at the ceiling, listening to her footsteps recede down the stairs. I think about her with my brothers, going through the motions, jumping through the hoops, recording expected answers in appropriately marked boxes. They’ll lie to her, and she’ll lie to them, but she didn’t lie to me. She didn’t lie to me.

For some reason, that matters.
