
It is sad, yes, but remember that this is the price we humans must endure for the hope they provide us. O’Malley remembered this, even during these strange months and years since, even as we speculated about his distracted gaze, that vacant stare that would not rest anymore on billboards but looked out over pools and ponds and puddles, that moved towards shafts of warm sunlight, that sought the nooks between buildings where squares of dirt and root and leaf remained. I was not the only one from whom he drifted. He spent long hours staring out his office window at the birds, taking long bathroom breaks; when he napped our office was plagued by the terrible sounds of his somnambular quacking. We chipped in for an engraved birdbath that he placed in the center of his office, rolling his fingers through the water; more than once he hopped up and dunked his backside in, and I have since kept extra suits in his size hidden in closets throughout the building. When it rained, O’Malley often skipped work altogether, and the only times I ever saw him smile were on days when I would be on my way to the parking lot and glimpse him splashing around in the rain puddles, arms waving to no one, face twisted in conversation with himself. Let us not disparage ourselves over these speculations of hopelessness and insanity and longing, for the source of inspiration is hidden from all except the mind it comes to, and remember it was speculation itself that had always brought inspiration to O’Malley. I knew he would eventually return to me, to seek my counsel, and my only sadness is that he waited until he was on his deathbed, in the form of a barely legible note instead of a decent goddamn conversation. “Ducks or nothing,” he’d written and underlined. Even wrote it into our agreement. The lengths he went to… Did you know? He scouring the world’s wetlands, tested each duck personally, observed them in situ, splashed through puddles and babbled with them before donation on behalf of the O’Malley Institute of Fair Mallards to their delighted caretakers – the crash survivors receiving the first ones, then the thousands of widows and widowers who came to him lonely and hopeless. “Ducks or nothing,” he said, and he had me worried there, yes he did, that I’d have to continue in his absence; the time, the money, the valueless drain, but remember who O’Malley was, deep down, in his true heart. What we all are. Professionals in hope. 
