
“Beautiful, this city, isn’t it Doris?” He wiggled his warm hand beneath her. Her breathing had changed. It was slow and rhythmic, and she seemed to respond less to the wind and noises. She was asleep. O’Malley would later remember these hours fondly as moments spent napping with Doris, and he felt stillness in that way that makes time’s pace impossible to predict. During the following hours with Doris on the bench, O’Malley was overcome with the general feeling of not being human, or no longer being human. He was not ignorant of the fact that his introduction to Doris was predicated on a horror that he had survived, and that if it was so easy for him to ignore those horrors, there might be a condition similar to Doris’s occurring in his own brain, and so he was forced to imagine that, assuming his corpus callosum had not been snipped, and that he was not a duck, that he was something different, perhaps some sort of robot, or, since he couldn’t imagine a robot having so much affection for Doris, that he was a robot that had not yet been aptly completed – the seed of an idea whose closure we’ll witness tonight – so when the morning trolley reentered his wandering mind, it formed an image composed of levers, the pulling of levers, big metal levers. There he was within the levers, directing the trolley himself, and cylinders with chemicals appeared behind him, and the cylinders pumped up and pumped down. He felt the rumble of the tracks below, and as he pulled the levers and the cylinders pumped up and down over the tracks, he looked around through robot eyes and saw the tank of little creatures he had left behind, unaware that anything bad could happen to them, focused only on their day, on the shoes and the stops and their amount of personal space and the meetings for which they were going to be late. He saw the Asian girl too, the one with the purse that had rubbed against him, and he thought that maybe she hadn’t been hurt at all. She was fine. Maybe no one was hurt. Maybe there was no blood on the glass at all. Maybe Doris would have been fine there too, uninjured, on the tracks, if he didn’t pick her up. Maybe. Dread overcame O’Malley. But why should he feel dread? This was only an after-image; an unreliable memory branded by a lifetime of subjective associations. It was the dread of hopelessness. While other people saw emotions and fears and sadness in the eyes of their fellow humans, it seemed to O’Malley that he saw only chemicals, in cylinders, pumping up and down, which would have been fine, except that something else struck O’Malley: a robot has no hope; no hope that it can act better in the future. 
