
No hope! What a horror! 

That morning on the trolley, O’Malley was encased by faces that barely concealed their fears of that very horror, and he felt it too. Now picture the trolley lurching to a stop again so more people could pile on. An unconscionable driver! Children filled in like pebbles through stones. Their backpacks pushed and jabbed O’Malley close enough to the Asian girl that she uncrossed her legs and her purse rubbed against his fly. He held his breath. She was still watching him. He closed his eyes, and with the purse against the zipper of his slacks, he imagined himself being patted and fondled. He enjoyed himself, let himself be taken away into that land of fantasy that could occupy a moment or two as if it were weeks or months in an epic book, until a body pushed into him. An old European lady forced herself between O’Malley and the girl, nearly knocking him down, saved only by the other packed-in bodies holding him up through some law of commuter physics. So many faces. Everywhere there were faces. Inside the copper and brass and wood of the dim trolley. He lifted his chin to try to see them all, both sitting and standing. What a little tank of creatures. Or perhaps a single creature with many tentacles, undulating with a thousand eyes through rough and tumbling seas. A certain feeling began to roll and tumble through O’Malley’s mind, unmistakable yet identifiable only in retrospect. Rage. An irrational rage whose source he couldn’t place. This not his usual feeling, no, very unlike O’Malley, yet there it was, every part of him swelling with little chemicals, hormones and endorphins and corticosteroids, filling him from viscera to skin, and for a moment, before he could stop it, he wanted to see all these heads and bodies burn and split and choke and die. He became frightened of himself. Yes, O’Malley recognized his mania, and he felt guilt, and then shame, and he didn’t like that feeling, for who would, so he began trying to imagine the girl’s purse against him again. He even managed to close his eyes and get the image in his mind before some little quiet set of neurons in his brain took in the image of a duck walking onto the tracks. 
