
They walked. O’Malley and Doris, in the cold and the gray and the wet of late morning, Doris snuggled in the warmth of his right armpit with her sock-bandaged foot supported by his left hand, walking until they stopped at a restaurant in front of the piers where they were greeted by a squat mid-forties Hispanic in a stock blue suit shaking his head. 

“Sorry sir,” said the squat Hispanic in his stock blue suit, shaking his head. 

“Is it because I have a duck?”

“No duck.”

“No duck?”

“No duck.”

“But she’s an albino duck.”

“No albino duck.”

“No albino duck?

“No albino duck.”

The sad parallelism of two humans; each mind trying to maintain its own righteousness. “We’re not communicating,” said O’Malley and he gave Doris a squeeze to vent some anger and walked again, down the block, until he found a restaurant host who was either more forgiving of ducks, or more impressed by albinos. Who could really say. The restaurant was dreary, but a dreary place suited a dreary day, and to add to the welcome dreariness, O’Malley heard the excited chuckle of Andy, his associate. Picture Andy joining them for appetizers, Andy talking about budgets and timelines, Doris quacking and tenderly waddling on the table with a little limp. Picture Doris knocking Andy’s wine glass over and leaving a liquid brown and white mess on Andy’s omelette. Andy was a sport and didn’t seem to notice the gaffe, or maybe Andy just didn’t care about Doris like O’Malley. Couldn’t Andy see Doris’s injury? Wouldn’t he even think to ask? O’Malley was no expert on duck physiology, but he suspected Doris’ digestion was a little on the fritz from all the excitement of the morning, yet Andy was still talking about budgets and timelines, and then about milestones and deliverables and all the pedantic details of our profession that always threaten to derail creative minds like O’Malley’s, ignoring Doris until the host arrived and asked O’Malley and Doris to leave, which O’Malley did, complying and nodding to Doris in his arms as he slipped out the door back into the cold, mumbling that he was proud of Doris for leaving insensitive and self-possessed Andy with the check. 
