
O’Malley awoke early on the bench by the piers, his phone having sounded his usual workday alarm. He was shivering. He didn’t remember falling asleep, only the dread of feeling hopelessly inhuman mixed with the happiness of the preceding day with Doris. But she was gone. Not in his lap, not under the bench, not in his immediate vision. He checked his phone, as if Doris could have called him, but his phone was filled only with the usual messages: wife, mother, Jane. He searched the waters by the piers, then retraced his steps from the day before, first to work, then back towards the restaurant. He tried to think like Doris and searched the ends of the shafts of warm sunlight breaking through the clouds, searched the puddles collecting along the curb, searched the darkness in the nooks of buildings, and the containers filled with dirt and dewy plants. By the time he retraced his steps all the way back to his usual trolley stop, commuters were already pouring over the streets, and there in her usual spot at the top of the subway stairs was the Hispanic woman yelling “Free Examiner!” Today she was dressed like a conductor, or an engineer, or whatever the hell they’re called. O’Malley took the newspaper. The cover showed the trolley, and the headline indicated an accident. O’Malley searched the photo for a sign of Doris. A feather, a bill, a foot, anything. When he couldn’t find her, he searched the photo for himself. When he couldn’t find himself, he searched for the Asian girl, and then gave up searching the photo and just scanned the article. It said there had been injuries and a death, but offered no more details, and mentioned nothing about Doris or O’Malley. He thought about Doris, bloody, on the tracks. He thought about her hobbling, out there all alone, and he wept. Standing there in the whirlwind of commuters and tourists, he wept. He pictured himself on a billboard and wished he could hoist himself high over the city, advertising his warm arms and companionship to Doris and hoping her memory of yesterday would bring her back to him, hoping he could inspire her to hope to see him again. But she was immune. She was gone. 
