
There was fog blanketing everything, and wind, and wetness, and cold, and darkness, and yet it was morning, and not very early, as O’Malley commuted. On the corner, a Hispanic woman shouted “Free Examiner!” beside a stack of newspapers. Today’s edition highlighted budget cuts for education, and the woman wore a bright purple academic robe and a four-cornered hat. O’Malley saluted her flair but did not accept the newspaper. He joined a group of bystanders as the trolley pulled up. It looked full; no one would be able to board.  

But board they did. And so did he.  

Knowing from years of behavioral research that consumers gave away faded and soft bills first, O’Malley gave a crisp, uncrinkled one to the driver (conductor? engineer? however the hell they brand themselves these days…), and then crammed in. He squeezed through to the exit in the back and held onto the overhead metal rail as the carriage began to move. It crunched and grinded, metal on wood on metal, and then slowed again at the next stop, the voice at the front announcing “All aboard, there’s room in the back.” That anyone else could fit was astonishing. Appalling. The oxygen thinned. The space around O’Malley shrank and shrank again until he was pressed against the commuters seated on the line of wooden benches along the trolley windows. Below him, an Asian girl in her twenties with bangs cut like a scar across her face refused to uncross her legs, her shiny knees and shins taking up extra space. She looked up at O’Malley and would not look away. She had that undeterred interest of children, following his eyes as he looked away, then back, then away, then back again, and then following his hands whenever he moved them. Next to her, an old man with a greasy white ponytail fumbled with the keychain bottle opener of a competing agency (though we were the first), and these images bothered O’Malley enough to look for somewhere else to rest his eyes, but he found only middle-aged arses and painted toenails off to work, off to spend money made from work, maybe even working now, cramped, each one’s business more important than the next. 
