
The next trolley pulled up alongside O’Malley. It seemed like the same trolley, but there were dozens of trolleys, and even if it was the same trolley, it would probably have been fixed, so O’Malley wouldn’t have been able to recognize it anyway. It was packed, full of tourists and commuters again. He stepped on and watched the conductor pull the levers, press the buttons, and listened to the crunching and grinding, sounding to him like the music made inside the skeletons of insects. He slid to the back of the trolley and gazed out the back window at the puddles on the blacktop. He allowed himself to be pressed against the glass of that back window, pressed like the black-haired girl’s face, as the trolley stopped at its stops and let on its boarders. He tried to savor the melancholy moment of Doris receding into his past, but he could not because there she was, waddling towards him on the curb. 

His heart jumped. 

He could see his bandage on her webbed pink foot, but she was waddling fine. He waved to her, squeezing his hand against the glass, and he swore she shook her feathers for him. 

The trolley stopped and Doris stopped and the two stared at each other, unmoving, and then, slowly, the trolley began to move again, but instead of Doris’s red eyes getting smaller – those bloody hell eyes set in that fuzzy white head – they became larger. With every inch the trolley pulled away they got larger and larger, and Doris hadn’t moved but still they grew larger and larger, and gazed back into O’Malley. They seemed to really see him. Not through him, not approaching or beyond him, but into him, right into O’Malley’s eyes, enveloping him, consuming him. There was light, and then objects, and O’Malley experienced these things around him receding again, but in the wrong direction, surrounded by wind instead of wood, the ground still instead of vibrating, and from his new vantage point on the curb, O’Malley watched the trolley pull away. He watched it from the curb and he looked into the window of the trolley as it rolled away and he saw the human form of himself staring back from the window, and whether that was still him or if it was Doris, or what was happening, he couldn’t be sure. He saw all the human figures packed together; he saw everyone inside that little tank of frightened creatures. The chemicals took over, and O’Malley felt the wind ruffling through him. His feet felt wide and webbed and when he looked at them they were pink and, compelled by unknown forces to do as Doris would, he flapped and flopped them towards the crawling trolley. He wanted only to save them from each other. Faster and faster he flopped towards the trolley, the soft Irish eyes encouraging him from the back window, until O’Malley overtook the trolley and having no other way of stopping it, no other way of preventing the trolley from rolling beyond where his flapping feet could carry, he threw himself onto the tracks and heard the screeching frame tumbling towards him. He heard the copper and the wood and the iron screaming down and saw the fireflies of light sparking between the wheels and the track, and the smell of iron dust igniting, and the trolley’s wheels lifted and slid and crunched onto the concrete, sliding sideways towards him, the sweat on the conductor’s face, the effort in his arms, and then the machine was upon him. He felt pain. He screamed out. He screamed but all that arose was a hoarse and guttural quack. 
