Spring in the desert bloomed fierce, sweating petals pushed from stone and sand. Petals like alien versions of the proud, arbored gardens of the east, where Gideon was born, sixty-two years ago, in the parking lot of a Sears in Cantrey, Massachusetts. Cantrey, of which he remembered nothing but Ted Williams and rough-edged brick and lollipops made of snow. And his grandmother saying that the winter trees against the sky looked like old lace. Here, the sky blistered, tore, grew smooth. Trees were occasional, and they carried with them old histories of oases, of mirages evaporated into air just as the lost came to touch their cool pineapple springs. Here, the petals of flowers were scruffed as the beards of old men, jutting out of the edges of the land instead of growing from within it.

He made this walk every morning of every year. In the fall and winter, he searched the sand for stones; in the summer, it was for bits of the bones of animals. He took home what he found, smoothed them down, made dolls and tiny boxes and Christian crosses by lashing them together with shoelace. Someday, he told himself, he would sell the things he’d made, but, in forty years, he hadn’t. They remained on his shelves, armies of converted matter, staring back at him.

And in the spring, he looked for wildflowers.

The wildflowers were savage, a little bit reckless. Defiant against the physical facts of aridity and expanse, they burst forth in colors the long desert winter had made you forget existed. In reds and jeweled blues and yellows unafraid to compete with the sun. They trumpeted their own implausibility, mocked with round, feathered heads the slow evolution of irrigation, of water diplomacy.

After the war, this had been the only place for Gideon. After the heavy closeness of the jungle, the black charge of the sky, the impossible orange of fire that jumped on the backs of human beings and twisted them to earth. After that, where else could a man go but the desert: a biblical place, leathered and red. Stars that seemed to float on top of the night, never sinking into it until morning. Breathing room, a place to be alone, a place where one could feel justified in going bearded and crazy.
