Before Joseph began his crusade against my work, there was just Raymond, only child, and I have to blame my mother for all of it, not just for birthing Joseph, but for finding him again, and for crowding me out of my own home and colliding me into him. She arrived the day of my exile. I returned from the lab at noon, tried to sleep off the rest of my hangover, and then, once the sun went down, began acquiring a new one with a fresh bottle of cheap Irish whiskey. I turned off my alarm. I wanted nothing to wake me, but then tossed and turned, in and out of sleep, trying to decide what to write for Brad York, that demon, the one who exiled me. 

I finally fell asleep as the sun rose, but awoke at 10 o’clock to scratching downstairs. The right side of my bed was tidy and cool as it had been for the past few years, without Wray to keep it warm. I poked my head into my hallway. Something smelled different. I grabbed an umbrella from behind my bedroom door, flipped it so it was hook-first. Brandishing the weapon, I padded downstairs. Who robs the suburbs during the day? Something was scuttling through cabinets. Something that didn’t care if its presence was known. Had I left a door unlocked, inviting a hungry vagrant? Or a window open for a stray animal? A possum could be scared away with a loud shout and some swift swinging, but raccoons are tough. A raccoon would stand its ground. Or attack. I turned the corner, umbrella raised with intent to kill. 

When I was fifteen, I filled a backpack with a flashlight, knife, hand-crank radio, four cans of beans, can opener, fifty yards of rope, ten matchbooks, deck of cards, harmonica, change of underwear, and a roll of duct tape, in case of post-apocalyptic emergency, but none of this would’ve helped as I turned the corner of the kitchen to find my mother flipping through cabinet doors, sliding her large, calloused feet over the linoleum. I should’ve recognized the sound. In previous visits, she’d rubbed those warty feet over every surface less than two feet off the ground, including the step-stool, the end-table, and our former cat. Wray and I had grown scared of walking around in bare feet whenever she visited. “Why don’t you have some manners and take off your shoes? Didn’t I teach you to take them off when you were a kid? Why do you both wear socks and slippers when it’s so god-almighty hot out?” We never answered. Once, she spilled red nail polish over our couch, creating a murder scene that terrified Wray into throwing her keys so high they broke the light fixture. During Wray’s last holiday here, she told me “I know she’s spending all her time plotting how to send me to an early grave,” to which I said, “Now you tell me, Wray, how can any of us really claim to know anything at all?” though she didn’t appreciate the depth of this comment. With my umbrella raised at the kitchen’s threshold, hook high in the air and ready to descend, I spoke, and my mother, this five-foot dumpling, shrieked and grabbed the loose night-shirt over her heart, clenching it like it would save her life. 

“Don’t <em>do</em> that. You scared me half to death. And you don’t even know the half of it.” She breathed heavy, and a spray of dead taste buds misted from her mouth. “Come, give your mother a hug.” When she’d asked me if I’d be the guardian of her living will, I didn’t think she’d come to collect, or what it even meant. She explained as I delivered the hug. “I just knew you’d do the right thing,” she said, then asked me to get the rest of her stuff from outside. 

My late father, regarding the amount of space I should put between our homes: “At least a bridge or a tunnel, trust me,” which I often repeated to Octavio on long lab nights, peeling our headphones off for a few minutes, letting our ears dry out. Octavio would shake his head at what a terrible son I was. “Selfish,” he’d say, echoing my mother, but I’d tell them both I was comfortable with the right type of selfish. And come to think of it, the right type of selfishness is exactly what Joseph found. It is found through disbelief in the utility of self-referential pronouns. If there is no “I” then there is no attachment. Subjectivity diminishes. We remain calm, objective. Want and fear subside. But it is hard, isn’t it? Yes, it is difficult. 

“Quit whining,” she said, as I carried in box after box. “The government took everything else, so consider yourself lucky your poor mother’s broke and can’t afford a moving van.” She coughed her asthmatic cough. It entered and infected me. By three o’clock, the apartment filled with boxes marked “kitchen”, “living room”, “bedroom”, and “fragile,” I wiped my right eye, which was starting to water. She coughed twice and waved me away. I covered my mouth and nose. Half my vision was blurry. I lied and told her I had to go to work. The truth was, I had nowhere to go. I couldn’t go to work, and yet I had work to do. I didn’t realize then that my mother was about to begin her own research, her own work, tracking down another son whom she’d had and then given away long before she ever had me. 
