This was the work I had to do. This was the order: “Go write a biography, Raymond.” 

“You mean an auto-biography?” 

“Exactly. It’s an order.” 

I say it flippantly, out of bitterness, thinking that Brad York was an idiot, not the demon that he is, but even so, there’s more to it than that. I left for work the day before my mother’s arrival as I’d left for work every day. I had a simple routine. A quick shower, work pants, work shirt, loosely slung plaid tie, heavy steps with a sore head. Step through the yellow gingko leaves on the sidewalk, past the rows of garbage cans. Watch the sewers fill with needles and sap and bark. Wave at the neighbor in his sweatpants walking back up the sidewalk. Nod to the man with the swollen eye sitting on the steps of his porch and singing. Cross one intersection, then two, then three, and listen to the familiar cough and moan of the old lady in her porch chair. A morning like all mornings five blocks to the lab, that splendid white monolith that stood out like a middle finger against the rest of the University’s brick shacks, crossing the grass of the campus grounds that held Laurel I. Laboratories, a research arm loosely affiliated with the Albany branch of the California State school system. Up the stairs and into the astrophysics wing – into my lab – only to find a memorandum tacked on the common room bulletin board: 

<blockquote style='font-style:italic; margin-left:2em'>

  1. Yes, I am your new boss. The University has appointed me, on behalf of the government. Continue to consult Dr. Reinhardt for anything technical, formulaic, or science-y. 

  2. I am not a scientist. I am a pickleball champion with an inclination toward ping-pong when there are no pickleball courts. A ping-pong table will be constructed in this room by EOD. 

  3. Raymond Day will immediately begin writing an account of his soon-to-be-famous discovery. All of his other work ceases. Consider him an exile. Upon completion and approval, his return to his lab station will be open for discussion. Please provide him with moral support. It’s his fifteen minutes so make sure he uses it well. 

  *Brad
</blockquote>

Brad York, this man who signed with an asterisk. I searched the white-walled room and saw a piece of paper with “Brad in” taped over Dr. Reinhardt’s door. This new boss was visible through the blinds, dressed in a very unscientific dark blue suit. The cracked glass door snapped shut as I slid inside. I introduced myself to Brad York’s back – to his finely trimmed salt-and-pepper hair – for he was hanging a poster advertising the latest in pickleball paddle technology over Reinhardt’s framed certificates. I told him Raymond Day wasn’t a writer: no self-respecting scientist wrote public accounts of his own serendipity, and the department and government and all of humanity would be better served with him planted in a seat with a pair of headphones. 

Brad York turned, smiling. “I promise, this poster is all I’m adding. Won’t touch another thing. Now how can I help you, dear Raymond, pride of the University, Einstein of the times, Darwin of the people?” He folded his hands but didn’t sit. I’ve never trusted anyone named Brad. Bradley maybe, but not Brad. His eyes shone silver, lit by some inner flame. 

“I’m no writer,” I repeated. 

Brad York straightened his bright blue tie, tucked the short end between the second and third buttons of his white shirt, and sat down in Dr. Reinhardt’s big brown chair. “Doesn’t matter. We have editors. Are you chewing your tongue?” 

“No, it’s…no.” 

“It looked like you were chewing your tongue.” 

“I wasn’t chewing my tongue.” I was chewing the inside of my cheek.  

“Well, it looks ridiculous.” 

“Okay.” 

“Raymond, you seem stressed. I can understand that. Things are going to get cramped in here over the next few days, so you might as well enjoy the time at home.”

“Sir, you’re going to need someone around here to verify–” 

“Nope, we’ve got it. Simple damage control. Once everyone realizes they’re fucked, we’re going to have a lot of explaining, and they’ll want to know one of their own was the messenger, not some suit like me, or some smarty-pants like Reinhardt. Someone who chews on his tongue, wears cheap work shirts, and smells of cheap whisky. Yours is the face. Yours are the eyes, the ears. And the first thing we need is a first-hand account of recent history.” 

“No one wants to read about physics.” 

“Raymond, it’s not the physics. It’s that they are going to die.” 

“You mean ‘we.’”

“Sure, ‘we.’”

“With all due respect, we were all going to die before.” 

“Yes, but you found out when!” 

“Only cumulatively. Not individually.” 

“Still, regulation is going to occur. Lives will be trimmed, lost, bartered, something. It won’t be pretty, and you’re going to help them choke it down. Go write a biography.” 

“What?”

“A biography. Write one.” 

“You mean an autobiography?”

“Exactly.” 

“What?” I was only thirty-five. I hadn’t even lived yet. 

“We’ll have to make an announcement before anyone else, so when we do, we’ll talk about a forthcoming publication date, with the promise of answers. That’s something people can look forward to again. It’ll be huge. There’s science huge, and there’s pop-culture huge. You’re going to have both. Instead of a devil, you’ll be a goddamn hero. We’ve got to give the people hope.” Brad York paused to observe my fright. “And since you’re the bastard that took it away, it’s your damn responsibility to return it. Now damn it, give ‘em some hope!”
