So that’s where I started. Even before my mother arrived, even as she was creeping closer to my home, filling her car with labeled boxes, and giant feet itching to be out of shoes, I searched campus for a place to hide. The opening paragraphs of the first draft of Raymond Day’s autobiography – it was titled Times Up! then – were composed in an empty classroom in the biology wing that slowly filled with graduate students. A stuttering one pointed and said, “Hey, aren’t you th-th-the-,” and I can picture that Raymond waving and exiting, his head down as the instructor entered, fiddling through papers. I didn’t realize word would spread so quickly. I snuck through the halls toward a set of glass doors leading to the courtyard. It was sunny; sunny enough to leave little blinking spots in your vision if you looked up, and kids weren’t passing up the tan. A girl sat on a cement bench. I thought she was half-Korean or something, I didn’t know yet. Her hair came just past her ears, tips died tangerine. The slim shirt over her curved belly said “Hero,” and she sat with ankles crossed, legs bent to the sides, as if she didn’t know enough about sex to think her pose suggestive. No one here would recognize me. I sat at an adjacent bench and sipped a cup of coffee. Then she caught my eye. She stared. Most people, when you catch their eye, they glance and then look away, casual, happens every day, but this one stared back. I didn’t want to show my discomfort by looking away, so I stared back, escalating it, and now I could see in her undeterred gaze that I was the strange one staring, and she wanted her eyes to say that, to say “Why are you staring?” I didn’t know why I was staring, except that she was pretty. I looked away, confirming I was just staring for no good reason. She unfolded her legs and approached.

“You think I’m pretty?” she asked, and sat down next to me on the metal bench.

“What?” 

“Either you think I’m pretty, or I look like someone you know. Which is it?”

I smelled the air. During the loss of my virginity, the little blue jay was menstruating, and that Raymond Day’s association with that smell, that metallic tint, that sour extra, well, that was it right there. I smelled nothing, but still, I wasn’t a fetishist. If it hadn’t been for the reporters, I would’ve loved nothing more than to spend my first night of exile having unprotected, moralistic, selfless sex with this tangerine-tinged student on her cheap, inherited bed. When I turned back to ask if she’d squealed to the reporters, she was gone, her spot on the bench occupied by a torn piece of baby blue notebook paper scrawled with pink ink. I stuffed it in my pocket. The reporters covered me before I could search for her. Turns out she was older than I’d thought, and though she wasn’t a student, she was more than familiar with my lab.

I faced the reporters, puffed up my chest, and bent into their fuzzy microphones.

“There are no geniuses,” I said. “We’re all just at the right place, at the right time. None of us know much about, or have any control over any of this,” and I looked up proudly into their eyes, until Brad York came from somewhere – who could say where – swiftly, as if he’d teleported, and blocked me from the reporters. They ceded to his demands and erased their recordings. Brad York and Raymond Day, in silence, walked back up to the lab’s office.

“Let’s start over,” said Brad York. “Only this time, we’re going to switch positions. You be me, and I’ll be you. Pretend this is our first introduction. Stand here.” He pushed me behind the desk. “You start. This is your desk. You’re me,” said Brad York. 

“Hi Raymond. I’d like you to meet your new boss, me,” I said.

“Pleasure to meet you.”

“I’m not your boss in the science-kinda-way. You can still refer to Dr. Reinhardt for that. Think of me more as the guy who tells you what to do now.” 

“Great! Now boss, can you tell me why you erased those tapes?” 

“Because we want to represent this laboratory in a carefully calculated light, despite our internal claims that we want a true and human account for the express purpose of preventing any excitement in the populace, general or otherwise, as a result of this department’s recent discovery, at least until we learn more about and figure out, from a government point of view, what the hell we’re going to do about it.”

“Perfect! Wonderful! Now switch back before you say something that gets you fired.” He stepped behind his desk, ejecting me out the other side. “That was a joke. I can’t really fire you. But I can do other things, and we don’t want to guess what those things may be. Listen, all of this demands some flexibility. Before I was asked to come here, asked by the Secretary of the Interior directly, I was on my way to the pickleball championships.” He removed a paddle-shaped item from his briefcase. “I was on my way to meet the latest manufacturer of these babies.” He rotated the paddle between his hands. “Revolutionary really. A cut of the casing used on satellites. It’s too light to be a good paddle, but the waffle-design and glue are fantastic. I was going to purchase the IP for the military. Has the potential to be stronger than our current armor. And all because I’ve been following pickleball since I was as tall as this desk. But I’m not going there now. No one gives a shit right now. Because of you. So don’t fuck around and tell anyone holding a microphone or a pen or even cupping their curious little ears that there are no geniuses and we don’t know what the fuck we’re doing, because if we don’t know what we’re doing, Raymond, then who the fuck does? You want to tell everyone out there trimming their grass and worrying if their daughters and wives and kitties are safe that no one here knows what the fuck they’re doing?” He threw his hands to the ceiling, where they grazed the overhead fan. “Don’t fuck the lie. Don’t burst the bubble.”

“I could’ve said that.”

“What?”

“If you’d have let me continue from behind the desk, I would’ve said just about that.”

“You’re a bit of a bastard, aren’t you? I like that. Go write me something I can print. Campus is officially off-limits until further notice, so stay out of the way of the men with guns.”

Men with guns! He wasn’t kidding. In my dearest lab room, men with guns, tucked into their tailored pants. And there was noise: talking, footsteps. My lab room was downright, busy, certainly no longer a refuge. I looked for Octavio through the glass window of the door to our workstation. I jiggled my key in the lock, but it didn’t work. I could see inside still. In the dim light, the beautiful glow of switches and LEDs, the sweep of neon scanners, crammed with bodies. They’d moved into my home with their guns and suits and earpieces. They stood vigilant, protecting something, as if the beast out there, trained to our machines, were to take shape and demand to be put down by their little bullets, and maybe those bullets really are, to the riptide of time, like the quarks and electrons passing through us every moment, shredding us, unaware.
