Expelled from school. Expelled from life, really. And the ugly truth is there’s not much to do but reflect on where I went wrong. I’ve been imprisoned in my head for days on end, replaying and dissecting a lifetime of mistakes. How did I get here? How did I become a pariah, a villain, an exile in my own home? 

I’m doing some pretty major soul-searching right now, but I won’t pretend being grounded forever is going to show me the error of my ways. It’s not going to change anything. My parents and shrink are under the impression that I’ll eventually learn from my behavior, work on my attitude, and repent. But nothing is ever that easy.  “Dascha,” my father keeps saying. “This is for your own good.” And every time he says it, he shrugs and looks away. Does he really think there’s a cure for someone like me? 

Alone in my room, under metaphorical lock and key, I keep reaching the same conclusions. I can’t trust myself, and therefore I can’t be trusted. Nothing could have stopped me from doing what I did. And now everything’s falling apart. 

It’s hard to pinpoint exactly when I started to lose my way in life. But something tells me it all began with my first memory. 

It was wintertime. I was born in the fall, so I must have been only a little over a year old. Early in the morning as I crawled over the heater vent on the floor in the corner of my playroom, I discovered that air could be both cold and hot, like water. Every day was a new source of fascination. I’d never noticed temperature, the way it enveloped the world. I only knew if the sun was in my eyes or the rain on my cheeks. The heater game held a special, almost magical, allure for me. 

After a while, the heater clicked off, and I heard noises coming from outside. Plish, plish, splat, followed by laughter like little bells. Fascinated, I stopped in my tracks, straining to see out the window above the toy chest. Even when I pulled myself up, I was at least two feet shy of being able to glimpse anything other than sky, telephone poles, and our neighbors’ rooftops. Curiosity taking hold, I shut the lid of the toy chest and climbed on top of it. Gripping the lavender sill, I pressed my cheek against the cold glass. There was snow on the ground, spectacular snow. The world glowed as if lit from within. 

A large, noisy vehicle turned the corner and plodded along the street, choking off the mirthful laughter and leaving a trail of black sludge as far as my tiny eye could see. A dozen kids were playing down below in a neighbor’s yard, and among them were the older brothers and sisters of some of my neighborhood playmates. Kids who weren’t throwing snowballs were busy ducking and running from them. What a game! I thought. I tried to call out to them. Come get me! Take me with you! But I was stuck inside without a voice. I wasn’t talking yet, only making slurry, word-like sounds. I remember knocking on the window, hard at first, hoping. But after a while my knuckles started to hurt, and no one had so much as glanced in my direction. 

Still, I kept at it. I wasn’t going to give up so easily. My hand grew numb, and then my arm followed suit. The snowball fight ended, and the kids moved on to skidding up and down the icy driveways. I could no longer knock at all. I could only press my knuckles against the cold glass, half-hoping it would break and send me tumbling out. The kids sneaker-skated down the block without me, growing ever smaller in their blue and red and gray coats, their hair whipping in the wind like sails. They looked perfect, happy, like a scene from a picture book about winter.

It may seem like a bland, if a little sad, first memory. But it’s not insignificant. It’s a clue as to why I’ll never really know myself, an example of the tricks my peculiar mind—or, paradoxically, my steel-trap memory—likes to play. The snowball fight, the shoe-skating game—none of it was real. 

On Christmas morning when I was eleven, my mother and I sat sipping hot cocoa by the fire. Snuggled up next to her—one of the only times we stoic intellectuals were ever so affectionate—I began to tell her about the memory. Since winter had begun, the snow kids from that long ago day had been turning up in my mind. Vague little blurs of red and blue and gray. Faceless, the way figures in most people’s early memories tend to be. The little blurs led me to recall more details: the toy chest, the cold glass, the knocking. My quiet desperation. I told my mother the whole story. 

When I finished talking, my mother started to crack up. She couldn’t stop laughing, even after she glimpsed my confused expression. Her round, rosy cheeks quivered as she tried to stifle her hoots and howls, and her slight double chin kept trembling. When she could finally keep a straight face, she exclaimed, “Dascha Vershenovik, you have such a vivid imagination!” I stared at her, trying to understand how she, a mother—and not always a bad one—could find her daughter’s desperate struggle so humorous. My muscles tensed beneath the robe she’d given me. Chenille. Soft as a rabbit’s pelt. She wore one in the same shade of caramel, only many sizes bigger.

“What are you talking about?” I asked. “I didn’t imagine anything.” I planted my feet firmly on the floor. As I inched away from her, cocoa splashed onto the web of skin between my index finger and thumb. I winced in pain, but I didn’t want to give her anything else to laugh about, so I kept my mouth shut.

“It never snowed when you were a baby,” she said, sighing. “Maybe high up in the hills now and then, but never downtown. It just couldn’t have happened.”

I scooted as far away from her as possible. All of a sudden the fire was too hot; my skin stung, and I began to sweat. I shrugged off my robe and let it fall to the floor. My mother gazed at it, bemused. 

“It most certainly did happen,” I told her, my voice steady. “Who has the photographic memory, you or me?”

“You do,” she answered. “But I think your imagination gets in the way sometimes.” 

It turned out she was right. I went online that day and checked the yearly weather logs for Berkeley, California. Nothing more than sleet since the year I was born. That didn’t stop me from resenting my mother, but it did make me wonder why my brain had failed me. 

The earlier the memory, the blurrier my recollection is, generally speaking. It seems my mind works overtime to fill in the blanks. That Christmas was the first time I realized my mind had fictionalized parts of my childhood. It scares me to consider how many memories might actually be scenes from movies my parents watched while I was buckled into my play-swing by the couch or, more likely, products of pure imagination. Then again, it’s possible that when I was very little I couldn’t tell the difference between dreams and reality. 

That would explain why I’d seen my entire neighborhood coated in perfect, gleaming snow, even though snow is practically unheard of where I live. I was still trying to understand how weather worked. I had no idea then that city snow turned gray almost as soon as it hit the ground, and that it didn’t fall upon every city on earth. So I dreamed about the kind of snow I would have wanted. Maybe that was all the memory was—a dream—and when I woke up, I didn’t register the difference between consciousness and unconsciousness. I may have been smarter than most infants, but I was still crawling around in a cloud of confusion. 

It wasn’t till I was three years old that my superior skills kicked in. Besides possessing a photographic memory, I learned I could recite, word for word, almost everything I read or overheard. Whether it’s a blessing or a curse, my photographic—and sometimes cinematic—memory is as real as my arm or leg. Or, more precisely, my fear of heights or sense of smell. But even though I use it every day, there’s no guarantee I’ll ever understand it. 

From the time I was very young, I knew I wasn’t like everyone else. 

I was a three-year-old phenomenon.

The child psychologists my parents took me to see after I began reciting long passages from chapter books and newspapers without a second glance at the page insisted I had a very special sort of brain. Not only could I read, I could understand words I’d seen only once or twice. My parents were horrified to think they might have a prodigy on their hands. They fretted about home schooling and expensive tutors and college coming five years early. They had a plan for me financially. And anyway, they had another baby on the way. My mother nearly passed out in her chair when, right there in the shrink’s office, I pulled a book from the shelf, put it down on the coffee table, and recited—with stunted pronunciation of course—an entire passage from Freud’s General Psychological Theory. I remember my father shaking his head, putting his hand on my mother’s belly, and heaving a colossal sigh.

Once Lowry was born, my parents didn’t have much time to contribute to my abilities. Practically every time he whimpered or sucked his thumb, my parents threw a party. I wish I’d been able to clue them in, make them pay more attention. Maybe I wouldn’t have ended up the family freak. But naturally, they were distracted. Baby-crazy. None of us could have foreseen then how many years—not to mention how much of my parents’ money—I would spend in shrinks’ offices as a teenager.

See, most genius kids whose brains are properly stimulated don’t feel the need to lash out. But from an early age, I was neglected intellectually by my scholarly parents. Ironic, isn’t it? Two university professors with their two brilliant heads put together couldn’t meet the demands of one exceptional child. For years, they pacified my temper-tantrums and mood swings with mind-numbing TV shows, sugar, artificial flavoring, and local playgroups consisting of normal-to-moron types. I went to a regular public school and memorized textbook after textbook until I lost interest completely. 

Then I hit twelve, et viola! My first tornado. 

Berkeley didn’t have tornadoes before I came along. No tornadoes, no snow, just general nice weather. Then I hit the scene, and it was like, watch your valuables. 

My mother once told me that when I had my first tornado moment, she was afraid I was having a seizure. She didn’t know then that a seizure would have been the best-case scenario. It was a summer night. We were in the middle of dinner and, without warning, my head started to loll from side to side. Slowly at first, then faster and faster. My parents thought I was playing a joke, pretending to be the girl from The Exorcist, though I’ve never even seen that movie. After the head-lolling, I started to tremble. In a matter of seconds, my body became one giant tremor. My mother told me that after she ruled out seizures, she thought I had done something idiotic, like stuck my finger in an electrical socket. 

Realizing the situation was serious, my mom and dad shot up from the table and tried to move me to the couch. On the way there, they said, I exploded. My arms whipped out, and I shoved both of them to the floor. My parents are people of sturdy, Russian stock, which means I must have possessed the strength of Hercules, at least momentarily. When they fell, I stood straight up, my eyes eerily alert but otherwise expressionless. Without warning, and without seeming to know what was in my hands, I started throwing things. My grandmother’s porcelain vase from China. My father’s books. My brother’s toys. Anything I could find that might shatter against a wall or hurt someone on the other end of a pitch. Fortunately, Lowry had the good sense to keep out of the way. 

When I came to, I found myself on the floor in a pool of water. The vase was in pieces all around me, but I’d miraculously avoided cutting myself. The bookshelf had been overturned, and both light fixtures had been reduced to jumbles of shards. Every time I closed my eyes and opened them again, the room became a funhouse reflection of itself. This makes no sense, I thought. The last thing I remembered was sitting with my family at dinner, wondering if my mashed potatoes needed salt. 

I shook my head to clear it, but the dizziness only got worse. Through the clouds obscuring my vision, I realized the only thing still intact was the table. Lowry cowered beneath it, his face white as a sheet. This can’t be real. This is a nightmare, I thought. But my head throbbed with pain. Incredible pain. Real pain. 

“What just happened?” I asked, my voice hoarse. For all I knew, a natural disaster had just swept in and blown the house to bits. 

As soon as I spoke, my mother and father leapt upon me with relief, hugging and smothering and practically suffocating me. They so were happy I was okay, they didn’t care about all the material damage I had caused. The sudden onslaught of affection confused me a little, but the sheer weight of their bodies was reassuring. They still loved me, no matter what.

That night was the first of my many demolitions. It took me a long time to persuade my parents to tell me what the episodes really looked like. Even when my mother finally agreed to give me the details, she left a lot out. I know it. She didn’t want me to feel like a freak. My father wished she hadn’t told me. He thought it would affect my self-esteem. After the second or third time I wrecked the dining room, he even gave my violent spells a pet name. He laughed nervously and said, “That was the greatest tornado moment yet.” 

They try to be good parents. They really do. But they’re definitely in over their heads. 

Lowry’s first long silence started the night of my first tornado. He was only nine years old at the time. Climbing out of the shadows, he surveyed the rubble. He wouldn’t look at me, and he was either unwilling or unable to speak. More than a week passed before uttered a word. At dinner two Thursdays later, he asked my mother in a hushed voice to pass the salt, and both our parents rejoiced. Literally. They stood up and sang old victory songs in Russian, thoroughly embarrassing both of us. Thank God no one else was there to see.

During his silences, Lowry has dark, troubled thoughts. He doesn’t tell anyone, but I know. Lowry’s usually a pretty happy kid, but when he’s not speaking, he looks at us like there’s something terrible happening that only he can see. 

I know that my tornado moments are the root cause of my brother’s suffering, but my feeling guilty all the time won’t help him. Instead, I’ve thought a lot about where the silences come from and how long they last. When he comes out of a silent period, it’s always at a random moment. He can go weeks on end without saying a word, but on rare occasions, he’s only quiet for only a couple of days. Despite the variations in each period, there have to be patterns; we just haven’t noticed them yet. I want to be the one to find them. 

For months, I’ve been working on an autobiography. I’m not calling it that just because any stupid schoolgirl can keep a diary. My autobiography is a serious record of my unique existence. Anyway, in the margins, I’ve been keeping track of each of Lowry’s silences for the past year. I record what triggers them (most often a tornado moment had by yours truly—but not always), how long they last, what happens right before he starts speaking again. I haven’t found anything that might be of help. But if I do—when I do—our parents will be the first to know. Maybe they’ll let me out of my room sometime before Christmas. But even if they don’t, it’s my fault he lost his voice in the first place, so I am responsible for helping him find it again. 

In the past year, Lowry’s had eleven long silences. When they first started, he had only two or three a year. That’s a pretty significant increase, and it’s another thing we have in common. Whereas I used to have a tornado moment once every couple of months, I now have one every other week. My parents keep two leather belts hidden in every room along with helmets in easy-to-reach places for Lowry to put on, since I tend to aim for his head. When I’m still in the shaking mode, not yet violent, they tie my arms to my sides with the belts. Now, when the tornado moments are in full-force, I just flail around on the floor, kicking. Occasionally, I still manage to break something.

Another thing I believe Lowry and I have in common is the dark thoughts. I’m not sure what his are like, but in my case, I start to see things that shouldn’t happen. My dad and mom dying in a car crash or my brother being chased and eaten by wolves. Weird stuff that makes no sense. When the daydreams—daymares—are over, instead of being scared or sad, I get really, really angry. I think, Where was I when this was happening? Why didn’t I stop it? I get so tense, I ball up my hands till my fingernails slice into my palms. 

My fears are largely unfounded, because nothing bad has ever happened to a member of my family. A broken finger once when Lowry slipped in the shower, and there was the time my dad fell off the roof trying to clean the gutters, but he only fractured a couple of ribs. Minor accidents. The real danger is in my head.

Just before I got expelled from school, I was in the midst of a daymare, one I remember much more clearly than what happened afterward. 

My parents stood at the top of a steep cliff, looking down at the ocean. They wore bathing suits, and they were smiling at one another. But down below, the waves were crashing on the rocks in a hungry way. The clouds were swirling overhead, as though they wanted to swallow up the sky. I heard growling. The ocean was growling, just like a stomach. My parents were oblivious to everything that was happening around them. Knees bent, they held hands and shouted, “One, two, three...!”   

That was when Michaela Roberts slouched up to my desk with her wild bleach-blond hair and ten layers of makeup, leaning over so I could practically see down her shirt. 

“Dude, is there something wrong with you? Your eyeballs are, like, shaking.”

Maybe it was her condescending tone, or maybe it was because of the way she stood over my desk like she owned it. In any case, I leapt out of my chair, flew over the desktop, and had a tornado moment all over her. She had to go to the emergency room, but she recovered. I guess I broke her nose. It was pretty messed-up looking already.

My parents had always prepared themselves for the possibility that a tornado moment could happen somewhere outside the house. They weren’t sure what the school policy was regarding undiagnosed physiological disorders, so they told Mr. Monroe, the principal, that I sometimes had seizures. My teachers were notified that if I started shaking, they should get me away from the other kids and immediately restrain me or put me in a broom closet. That was back when there was plenty of warning before a tornado moment happened.

It didn’t come as any real shock when, later that afternoon, Mr. Monroe informed my parents that I had assaulted a student. He knew someone with epilepsy, and he was convinced I could not have beaten Michaela Roberts’s nose to a pulp while in the midst of a seizure. My teacher insisted I was acting on my own free will when I repeatedly smashed my fist into her face, and after hearing all the gory details, Mr. Monroe was not in the mood to take it easy on me. I was expelled, and my parents didn’t try to argue. My father attempted to glare and look disappointed, but my mother had tears in her eyes, and she lovingly put a hand on my knee.  

Being expelled was difficult, but it was not the worst thing that happened that day. Michaela will be fine, and hey, maybe she’ll get a nose job out of the deal. What’s festering inside me and threatening to make my family come apart has nothing to do with her or the school. After all, my parents aren’t sadists. They wouldn’t ground me for letting loose a tornado outside my safety-zone. 

I’m grounded because of what I did in the car after we left the principal’s office. 

I was trying to tell my parents exactly what happened, because for once they hadn’t been there to witness the event. They hung onto my every word, asking me the same questions again and again. You had a dream about us dying? And it had something to do with Miss Roberts? For brilliant people, they’re not very good listeners. Lowry was sitting next to me in the back seat, not saying anything. There was shame in his eyes. He couldn’t have hidden it from me if he tried. An older sibling, a perceptive one anyway, can easily discern a younger sibling’s disapproval. After all, I was there for Lowry’s first smile, his first frown, and everything in between.

When I finished my story, having told them every detail up until I lost consciousness, my parents were quiet. I knew what they were thinking. I had had a tornado moment outside the house. My situation was out of their hands now. We couldn’t hide anymore. Something would have to be done.

While their minds raced, Lowry just sat there, looking out the window as though he didn’t care what became of me. Then he looked at me sideways, his eyes slanting the way they do when he’s especially irritated.

“Dascha,” he said. “Why don’t you learn to control yourself?”

            I narrowed my eyes at him. I knew he could be blunt, but how could he be such a moron? I couldn’t believe he had just claimed I was choosing not to have control. I crossed my arms, trying to think of something mean to say that I could risk my parents overhearing. Coming up with nothing, I ignored him. 

We drove through a quaint, sunny neighborhood a lot like our own. A multicolored slideshow of similar houses. Kids were playing in their yards, baseballs speeding from hand to bat to glove, like bullets. A woman walked her dog around a spurting sprinkler, and an old man tugged a garbage can down his driveway. My mother is, without a doubt, the slowest driver in the country, which usually earns us honks, middle-finger salutes, and plenty of stares. But here, all was quiet. The only other cars on the block were parked ones. The kids playing outside didn’t turn their heads as we inched by. The world went on as usual, despite our problems. If anyone had bothered to notice, he or she would have thought we were just an ordinary family having an ordinary, pleasant day.

“Do you want to know how I do it?” Lowry asked.

“Do what?” I asked, turning toward him.

“Control myself. Drive out the evil thoughts during my silences.”

            I smiled to myself for being right about his evil thoughts, but I didn’t say anything to encourage him.

            “I do a kind of, of—meditation,” he told me. “When I meditate, my silences aren’t as hard to live through. They can still last a while, but they aren’t so horrible. I’ve even learned to control my thoughts when I’m asleep.”

“You can’t control anything when you’re unconscious,” I scoffed. “I should know.” 

But somehow doubt, that parasitic worm, started to wriggle into my skull.

            “There is a way,” he argued. “Like I said, I’ve done it. Don’t you want to know how?”

            “No.” 

            “Well, I’ll tell you,” he said, ignoring the fact that I had just plugged my ears and started humming. I suppose he knew I could hear him anyway. “It’s not so hard once you know what you’re doing. I think it would be pretty easy for someone with a photographic memory.” 

He sat back and glanced out the window.

            “What on earth are you talking about?” I asked, unplugging my ears. “What does this have to do with my memory?”

            He looked at me intently. “I’ve learned to control what happens when I’m dreaming,” he said proudly. “I just have to remember that I went to sleep. It’s not as easy as it sounds, at least not for someone with a normal memory, like me. But it does work, Dascha. You know the bloody nightmares I’ve been having all my life? They’re now a thing of the past.”

            I rolled my eyes. “I’m so impressed.”

            “Whatever. Don’t try it then.”

My dad turned around in the passenger seat, his eyebrows arching. He gazed at me, perplexed, probably thinking, How could they be arguing at a time like this? Eventually, he lost interest and turned back around.

            "You really think I should meditate?” I asked in my most condescending voice. When I realized he didn’t have the sense to be embarrassed, the concept stopped seeming so ridiculous. He was just sitting there, waiting for me to accept his bizarre notions as truth.

            “Yes,” he said seriously. “It really works.”

            “Oh, does it?” I asked, my throat suddenly dry.

            “Yes.”

            “What are you, a new-age spiritual guide?” I snapped. I leaned toward him, my elbow on my backpack. “Or are you a Buddhist now?”

            “Knock it if you want,” he said and shrugged. “I got a book from the library. I was going to let you borrow it, but—”

            “You don’t become a Buddhist by reading a book,” I snorted.

            “I’m not a Buddhist,” he countered, then shook his head sadly, as though I were the one spouting nonsense.

Once again, I couldn’t think of anything to say that was safe for my parents to overhear.

“Anyway,” he continued, “the author of this book says you can control your unconscious environment, even when you’re not dreaming.” He looked at me, but I avoided his eyes. “Like, during a tornado maybe,” he added softly.

            “No, Lowry,” I said, narrowing my eyes. “You don’t understand. There’s nothing I can do about the tornadoes. There’s only blackness. Nothingness.”

            “Like I said,” he sighed, his freckled face cast down. “You don’t need to be dreaming.”

He took a tatty paperback book out of his backpack and thrust it into my hands. The Art of Tibetan Dream Yoga, by Bob A. Dorody. 

Bob the Buddhist, I thought. 

Rage boiled up inside my chest, and no matter how hard I tried to push it down, it wouldn’t budge. If he really believed I could control myself and keep my tornadoes at bay, he was an imbecile. He should have known better, even if he was thinking it, than to say it to my face. But here he was insisting that I, the primary victim of these tornadoes, was having them on purpose. Breaking ceiling fans, light fixtures, shutters, people’s noses. Oh, what fun. I love getting expelled.

Was he really so dim? Surely, he was testing me. Testing my limits. 

I’d show him limits.

I looked down at his lap. He hadn’t bothered to buckle up. We hardly ever did when mom was driving. Riding with her was like being on a parade float. 

“You don’t have your seatbelt on,” I pointed out.

“So?”

I leaned over, making sure no cars were coming in the opposite direction. Then, as though to remind him of all the dangers of the world, including myself, I thrust the door open and gave him the slightest push. 

He didn’t have the chance to look shocked before he tumbled out, grabbing for the only thing in reach: his backpack. As though it were connected to the car. He hit the ground and bounced hard, like a bowling ball. His backpack slapped the ground beside him, pens and pencils bursting out of the front pocket. As he struggled on the ground, the car just kept rolling on. 

I don’t know if my parents were slow to react, or whether, momentarily, we were all trapped in slow motion. In any case, I sat back, pleased with myself. My mother didn’t even slam on the brakes.

I smiled.

“Lowry!” my dad shouted, breaking the spell. My mother squealed and veered into the bike lane. I blinked. Suddenly, I was shivering all over. 

“Dascha!” my mother scolded abruptly, as though I’d just broken a plate or poured grape juice down the front of my shirt. But her eyes were wide and disbelieving. 

As soon as the car came to a full stop, they both bolted out into the street. What had I done? My teeth chattered loudly. I peered into the rearview mirror and glimpsed the eyes of a monster.

Sucking in a breath, I crawled out on Lowry’s side, leaving the door open behind me. He lay prone on the asphalt, his pathetic wails like the cries of an injured dog. His breaking, pre-adolescent voice shattered the quaint silence of the neighborhood. Younger kids swarmed around him, and their parents shouted for them to stand back. The kids glanced at me, wondering who I was. I hated myself at that moment; I couldn’t let myself venture within ten feet of my family. I just couldn’t face them. They probably wished I were dead.

Just then, the vision of my parents on the cliff returned. Not again, I thought, unable to make a sound. I stood, helpless, watching the first seconds of the scene unfold in my mind’s eye. The picture blinked in and out, as though it were being adjusted to the proper setting. In a flash of darkness, I remembered what Lowry told me in the car just before I pushed him out. That I could control my thoughts, conscious or unconscious. For some reason, I wasn’t laughing now. I wanted more than anything to try it, just try it. Anything but this.

The picture flashed back on, the settings fine-tuned. But the scenery had changed. The familiar, foreboding grey sky had vanished and been replaced by a clear, cloudless horizon. My parents, still in their bathing suits, were approaching the edge of the cliff. Laughing, they reached out to feel the misty spray rising up from the crashing waves. As the tide grew higher they glanced at one another warily, perceiving the danger down below. Slowly, they turned around. They were going home. The panic drained out of me as the scene faded. I felt no pain. No rage. Only a vague sense of nostalgia, as though all of this had happened long, long ago. 

Everything was going to be okay.

Then, without warning, I found myself standing in the middle of the street. Where was I? Not my street. Not home. Though I couldn’t tell what was happening, the relief I’d felt a moment ago vanished. 

Mercifully, my vision was slow to adjust. I didn’t automatically recognize the people around me. Parents and children were whispering, pointing. Over the drone, I heard my father’s voice. I saw the outline of his red plaid shirt. He was shouting at my mother not to touch him, not to move him till they were sure it wasn’t broken. Broken? I thought. What’s broken? Just then, my father moved out of the way. Lowry appeared, bent and crying, cradling his knee. 

“Lowry!” I cried out, but no one so much as glanced in my direction. This was really happening. This wasn’t part of my dream. Everything was not okay, and it was all my fault. 

A man claiming to be a doctor stepped off his front porch and walked slowly toward Lowry. Perhaps he’d seen so many emergencies in his life, he no longer felt the need to hurry. He reached my brother and calmly knelt over him, touching his leg here and there and asking questions under his breath. Then, he stood up and placed his hands on his hips. Though it seemed to me he’d hardly glanced at Lowry, much less had time to diagnose his injuries, he announced that my parents could move him without causing further damage. Thanking the man, my dad picked up Lowry like a baby, cradling him against his barrel chest, and brought him back to the car. I briefly considered staying behind but, like a reformed criminal, I willed myself to climb into the back seat and fasten my seatbelt. No one said a word to me. 

My mother sped us to the emergency room at Alta Bates, running three red lights on the way there. I’d never seen her drive that way, like a pure hellion. I gripped the back of the passenger seat as she whipped around corners, barely braking. Lowry rode in my dad’s lap, probably afraid to be in the back seat with me. He was so big he had to curl up in a ball, and still his head thudded against the ceiling of the car. 

I didn’t blame him for wanting to stay as far away from me as possible. I kept apologizing, but in my heart I wasn’t convinced I was sorry. Neither was he. Though he never once responded, I could tell what he was thinking: I wasn’t truly remorseful, only deeply ashamed. And afraid. I was worried about him, of course, but far more worried about myself. What had I become? Did I have even a grain of self-control left? What would our parents do to me? Lowry was their golden child. Now that I had threatened their precious little boy’s life, could they ever look me in the eye again?

One of the Emergency Room doctors took Lowry and my parents into an exam room, while I stayed behind in the waiting area. Men, women, and children murmured all around me. One woman kept moving her chair, and the legs screeched against the floor again and again, making me want to pull my hair out. I stayed still and didn’t say a word. My daymare flooded back to me, both versions of it, but this time only as a distant memory. How had the scene on the cliff changed from nightmarish and horrible to... benign? I had to think it had happened because of Lowry’s suggestion that I learn to control myself while unconscious. The notion was still fresh in my mind, and somehow I had done something to change the outcome of events. 

Instead of feeling better and more in control, I immediately felt worse. I had pushed Lowry out of the car for merely suggesting I could alter my unconscious environment. But what if he was right? What if it was possible to gain control of my unconscious thoughts and actions, like a sleepwalker who finally stops sleepwalking? He had a good theory, but I hadn’t been able to see it through my anger. If there was some chance I could gain power over the tornadoes, or wipe them out altogether, I should have been willing to try anything. 

When we got home, I tried to tell Lowry I’d give the self-control thing a chance. I’ve even looked for the book he showed me in the car, but I haven’t been able to find it, and he’s still not speaking to me. Maybe he’s given up hope. Maybe his whole theory that I can control my tornadoes is stupid after all. I don’t know. All I know is that I’ve nearly destroyed my family. I could have seriously hurt or even killed my brother, and my parents have probably weighed the benefits of murdering me.

Being grounded, I’m sure, is only the beginning of my punishment. I’m scared as hell, because I don’t know what will happen next. I’m weak, and I just want to be forgiven. But how will I ever earn forgiveness if I can’t change? I don’t know how long I’ll be able to live like this, wondering who or what I’ve become.

What if the monster I saw in the rearview mirror wasn’t an illusion?
